# Intelligence-Safety-Lock-
These days office/corporate environment security is a major threat faced by every individual when away from home or at the home. When it comes to security systems, it is one of the primary concerns in this busy competitive world, where human cannot find ways to provide security to his/her confidential belongings manually. Instead, he/she finds an alternative solution which provides better, reliable and atomized security. This is an era where everything is connected through network, where anyone can get hold of information from anywhere around the world. Thus chances of one’s info being hacked are a serious issue. Due to these risks it’s very important to have some kind of personal identification system to access one’s own information. Now a days, personal identification is becoming an important issue all around. Among mainstream personal identification methods we mostly see password and identification cards techniques. But it is easy to hack password now and identification cards may get lost, thus making these methods quite unreliable.
There are certain situations which are very annoying like when a person locks himself out of his house or office or he leaves his key inside or sometimes when a thief just breaks the lock and steals everything. These kinds of situations always trouble people who use manual door lock with keys. Although in some places people use smart cards, there might arise a situation when someone loses the card or keeps the card inside. Then in other scenarios there are caretakers for locking houses or offices and keeping the keys safe. But then again there are times when a person in charge of the keys might not be available or has gone to some emergency routine, which can cause unwanted delay for people who need the key straightaway. These are some of the hassles that people might face when using keys or smart cards. That is when our system, fingerprint based door lock system comes into play. Our design is implemented to provide better securities as users don’t need to remember passwords and don’t need any sort of keys or cards that often get lost. If someone’s fingerprint is authorized in the system he/she would not face any sort of delays to enter a room. Fingerprint recognition is one of the most secure systems because a fingerprint of one person never matches with others. Therefore unauthorized access can be restricted by designing a lock that stores the fingerprints of one or more authorized users and unlock the system when a match is found. Bio-metrics authorization proves to be one of the best traits because the skin on our palms and soles exhibits a flow like pattern of ridges on each fingertip which is unique and immutable. This makes fingerprint a unique identification for everyone. The popularity and reliability on fingerprint scanner can be easily guessed from its use in recent hand-held devices like mobile phones and laptops. 

